Now that we've seen how to pass information from the browser to the server using GET variables which
are encoded in the you Arel itself we're going to see how to do it using POST variables.
It works in much the same way but post variables aren't encoded in the RL So that makes them a little
bit more secure a bit more elegant.
And you don't have to worry so much about the content of the variable.
For example if a variable has an added symbol in it then that can be problematic with a string but it
worked with post.
So let's see how POST variables work.
I'm going to keep our form from the previous video
and then we need to do is change one attribute in our form tag and that is to change the form method
to post.
You can see that two options there get is the default so you don't need to add that post is what we're
going to be using this time.
So if we now run this without our tag if I put in a number that you'll see first off there's nothing
in the world so we're not putting our post variable in RL.
You also notice if you refresh then you get this request confirmed the form submission you've probably
seen something about in a web site that you've used where you've refresh the page after submitting some
information.
So what they're asking here is do we want to submit that post variable again and so if we say yes then
we do but it's still not there.
So how do we accessit of them.
What we do is
exactly the same as with the get variable but we use Dola underscore post instead of the underscore.
Get Let's have a look refresh.
Submit the form again and you can see we've got the variable in exactly the same way and that's pretty
much all there is to it.
Everything else works in exactly the same way as with GET variables.
So to get these into your head as well as practice DHP arrays loops and if statements.
I've got a little challenge for you and that is I'd like you to create a slightly expanded version of
the script that we created a couple of years ago where the user enters their name and the computer checks
to see if they know them and if they do then they say hello.
If they don't they say I don't know you.
So this time I want an array of usernames you can have as many as you like.
Three or four is probably a good idea.
And then I'd like the user to enter their name in a simple form like this.
Post it with a POST variable and then the code should check against the array of username.
If it's on there.
Say hello.
If it's not in say I don't know you.
Pretty simple but should give you a good opportunity to use pretty much everything that we've learned
in this section so far.
Go for it
all right.
How do you manage that.
Let's give it a shot them.
So I'm going to start with the aged female form so it will create a form with a method of post use capitals
or small letters.
It doesn't really matter.
And then will ask What is your name.
Then we'll have our inputs with a type of text and a name of name
and then will have our submit button.
So input with a type of submit and value will just be submit
all right.
I don't want to submit my form again because that was the previous form.
OK.
So that's the HVM.
Now for some Ph.D.
So first of all we'll check if there is a post variable a tool because if there isn't we don't want
to do all of this and check it against the array etc..
But if there is then we do want to check it.
So let's create our array.
You can imagine what my work is going to be I'm very an original.
So we'll have Rob Caston.
So me and Ralphie
what we want to do is take the name variable.
That was passed to the post array and check it against each of these names.
So a number of ways to do that.
But my favorite way as I've mentioned to loop through an array is using a for each loop.
So we use for each and we want family as.
And before we had key Aro Valley if we do that that's absolutely fine.
But we don't actually care about the key this time because I only care about the values.
So as a slight shortcut we can just a family as value and then that will ignore the keys and just give
us the values which is fine because the valley is all we care about here anyway.
And then what we want to do is check to see if the value is equal to.
Remember doubling calls for a checking and post name name is the name of the variable.
And here I'm going to use a similar solution to what we did in the is it prime script in the previous
video that I'm going to set is known to be initially false and then if the value is equal to the name
then we'll update is known to be true.
We're looking at so far.
And then when we've gone through that loop which is here then we just check to see if it's known then
we can carry Hi there and then the name
I'll put a friendly exclamation mark at the end there.
And if they're not if we don't know them we just say I don't know you.
All right.
So pretty straightforward but it does use loops if statements post variables and arrays and variables.
Indeed.
So let's take a look.
Just make sure it all works.
So if I put Rob in there hey it's looking good.
If I put Sarah then we get I don't know you and just a check Ralphy is nine.
Wonderful.
So how Hope you manage to do that wasn't too tricky.
In the next video we're going to look at a very common function for BHP scripts and that is sending
e-mail.
And that's in preparation for our mini project of creating a contact form.
See them.